What do you like in France?
The food is very good.
The tower I think is extraordinary,
every time  I pass by the tower,
I am left gobsmacked.
Saying "how beautiful", how
can something be so beautiful.  The
weather can be quite bad at times,
because I don't like cold,
but you get used to it.
We don't know much about you, we know
that you are a genius with the ball.
Would you say that
it's a gift from God?
I think so. I think it's a gift
that God gave me to play football.
Obviously I had to make some
sacrifices to realise my dreams,
so I'm very grateful to God
for giving me this gift,
because football is a passion
that I've had since I was little
and I'm going to make the most
of it for the rest of my life.
At what age did you discover
that you had something that
other youngsters didn't?
I would say around eight years old
is when people started to see that
I had something different. There was
one time in a tournament and in
the game, I think I scored eight
or nine goals. I picked the ball up
and dribbled past the goalkeeper,
scored and I went and hugged my dad.
I got to the fourth, fifth goal and
he didn't want to hug any more and I
was embarrassed because the other
dads were saying that I played alone,
I didn't play for anyone else.
And then when I hugged him he would
say no. Then they started to realise
that I had different quality compared
to the other players of my age.
Today, you are a global star,
admired and celebrated.
one of the best paid
players in the world.
The glory of a poor child in Brazil.
At that time, you lived
in a poor neighbourhood.
I was raised in a neighbourhood, that
was practically a favela in Brazil,
thank God we never went hungry.
Obviously we wanted something
more for ourselves.
I had a little something
that I wanted
that we couldn't buy
because we had no money.
I lived with my grandmother,
in my grandmother's house,
there were nine of us,
we slept in a room much
smaller than this space here.
It was me, my sister, my mother and
my father, but it was one of the best
moments of my life, that I enjoyed a
lot, playing in the street, meeting
my friends and playing football
in the middle of the favela. I had
a great time learning and thank God
with my gift of playing football,
I was able to take my family
out of this life of difficulties
and give them a better life.
You said that at home you had food
but nothing else, your mother didn't
have the means to buy you cookies.
Can you tell us more?
Once we went to the supermarket.
I wanted a cookie and my mother
said that I couldn't buy a
cookie because she had no money.
She went with the
money to buy us food.
When she told me that, I said okay.
So I'll be very rich,
I'll buy the cookie factory and then
she started laughing, because you
know, a child dreams a little.
But she laughed at the time and this
story ended up happening, she gets
emotional even today when I say that,
I think it touched her a lot.
Your father worked at the factory,
he dreamed of taking his family out
of the difficulty through football.
You fulfilled his dream?
In fact, it's obvious that
anyone's dream is to get the
family out of trouble, to give a
better life to the whole family.
My father's dream started when
he was a professional footballer,
unfortunately he didn't
have a successful career.
He managed to play for some clubs.
Then he started working in Santos.
He worked with mechanics, repairing
motorcycles and company cars.
He wanted to help me,
we got by with what he had,
his work helped a lot at home,
with a basic salary,
with the money he earned,
and thank God, it was awarded to me.
We joke about it a lot today.
We get along very well,
we talk a lot and joke together.
I am very grateful to
him, my family,
my mother and my sister, my friends.
Everyone who helped me to get
where I am, because it is not easy.
A lot of people see you at the top
and think it's easy to get to the
top. It's not, it's complicated.
You have to fight a lot and then
you have to stay at the top.
It's very hard too. So I'm very
grateful to all the relatives
and people who are close to me,
who help me everyday
to stay at the top.
Your father has always
overseen your career,
you have a very strong
relationship with him.
Yes, we have a very
good relationship.
Although we are father and son,
we are much more friendly than just
a father-son relationship. We talk,
we argue, we share opinions and we
don't always agree with each other.
So we have that a lot. We've
created that since we were little.
This is an advantage that I
think I have over many people,
many friends tell me that the
relationship that I have with
my father, they've never seen in
their lives and that it's really
different to have him as a father,
to be there by my side, no
matter how boring he is,
he is a guy that I love too much.
But at a very young age,
you had to move away from
your parents and your sister.
It's the price you had to pay
to succeed in football.
Of course, I had many moments when I
stopped doing things that I wanted to
do, like any child at the age of 12,
13. Going to the park or
going on a trip with school, going
out with some friends to the movies.
For many of them, I couldn't go
because I had training the next day,
or I had game, or I had to stay
home and take care of myself.
Obviously I stopped enjoying days
with my family when I was away
for two weeks to play. I missed that.
Today I live away from them,
for a good period of time now.
I miss my mother, my sister,
my father, whenever they can,
they come to visit me.
But I think that's part of life
for anyone who wants to succeed, you
have to go through difficult times.
You have to get outside
of your comfort zone.
You have to look for something
more or somewhere else,
so that you can give a better
life to your relatives.
We don't often speak about the
challenges of a star footballer.
The most marking being
during the World Cup in 2014.
You broke your back.
Were you afraid that the issue
would leave you with a disability
and to no longer be able to play?
Yes. It was one of the most
complicated moments of my life.
The back injury that I had.
But at the same time it was a relief.
It was also a happy
moment to know that I'd be playing
football again, because when I
got hurt and went to the hospital,
a doctor came to me and said:
"You have two pieces of news,
good and bad."
"Which one do you want first?" I
want the bad. "The bad is that
you're out of the World Cup."
Then I started crying and I said,
so what's the good one?
"You'll go back to playing football,
you'll be able to walk
normally again, live your life,
because if it was two inches to the
side you wouldn't have been able to
walk anymore. That really hurt me.
It's something I'm too excited about
because you take a bump on your
back and for the sake of two inches,
it could have ended your life,
ended my dreams and
ended my passion... it's not easy.
I suffered at that time and I was
very sad to have been ruled out of
the  World Cup, but it was a
release and God protected me and
I was able to play football again.
Neymar can resist anything.
It's his mental strength said
a former director at Santos,
your first club.
He never gives up his dreams.
Is that the message that you send
to the youngsters that follow you?
I think so, because you have to
believe in everything. I'm a guy who
doesn't see a lost ball,
doesn't see a lost game.
For me nothing is impossible.
Anything is possible.
I believe in everything,
I believe in God and I know that
God can do anything for those
who believe in him. So since I
believe in him, I can do anything.
I can look to win a game
that seems to be lost.
I can score a goal at the end,
I can do something
unimaginable for many, and I
never give up. One
piece of advice I would give to all
those youngsters that want to become
footballers is that they should
believe in their dream. Go for it.
Train. Insist.
Persist and
do everything you can to make
your dream come true.
That's what I did.
And there are of course
failures recently,
with the Champions League
final defeat for PSG.
Have you digested the disappointment
or is it unforgettable?
It was bad.
Losing a cup final,
even more so in the Champions League
is pretty bad. I didn't like it.
I suffered a lot, I cried, because I
really wanted that title for France.
But unfortunately we didn't get it
this time. But we've got another
chance this season and we'll try
everything to get back to the final,
in search of another title,
which is unprecedented.
It was a very difficult
game that we lost.
We were very sad, but it happens,
it's football and it's part of it.
They are a great team.
They were better in that match.
I think they deserved it.
But it's part of the game.
At PSG, how would you describe
your relationship with Mbappé?
We are practically brothers.
I'm the older brother and
he's the younger brother.
We mess about a lot,
I'm a guy who shout at him a lot too,
on the field, mostly I ask
him to run, do this and that.
I'm a real pain in the backside,
but I want the best from him. He's a
golden boy, I call him Golden
Boy because he's really special,
he has a huge heart, his quality as
a football player I don't even need
to talk about it. Everybody knows it.
But off the field, he's incredible.
A squad man, he's always smiling,
cheerful, joking around,
he's a lot like me. We need to
be happy to give 100 per cent.
So when he's happy on the
field it's hard to stop him,
so I always want
him to be very happy.
I hope we can have a great
season this year together,
that we can win several titles too.
And are you happy at PSG?
Do you want to stay?
Yes, I am very happy today.
Something has changed a lot.
I don't think I can say exactly
what ended up changing, but I know
something has changed, I don't know
if it was on my side or other things.
But today I feel good,
I feel more adapted,
more at ease with everything.
I am very happy here.
I want to stay at
Paris Saint-Germain,
I hope Kylian will stay too.
It's  the desire of every Paris
fan and I think that's all.
we want to take Paris Saint-Germain
to the top. I want to keep doing what
I've been doing for Paris, which is
playing football and being happy.
I have heard that you like to wind
up your teammates and tell jokes...
I'm a very playful guy, I like
to mess about with my team-mates.
I do so a lot with my friends.
I'm a very happy guy,
a very good friend to everyone, I
like to play, to laugh. I get on with
everyone.
You seem like a man that
likes to party. Is that true?
That's a different story,
but who doesn't like to party?
Everybody likes to have fun,
to go out with their friends,
with their family.
I know when I can go, when I
can do it, I know when I can't.
Quite the opposite of what
people think, that I'm immature,
that I don't know what I am doing.
If you stand there one hundred
percent focused on just playing
football, in my way of thinking
and my way of being, you end
up exploding and that I
will never stop doing.
Neymar, you take a lot of
care in your appearance.
Your clothes, hair and tattoos.
Is that another reason that
you are an icon for youngsters?
I don't know because I never
imagined it. I never meant
for it to be fashionable,
to be something for others to follow.
But it turned out to be that way.
The Mohican was one of the first
things I did and a lot of people
started to cut their hair in that
way, some clothes that I wear,
they also started to wear.
I'm glad it's something
that people like.
But the Neymar that we know the
least is the one with a huge heart.
In Brazil, you are a idolised,
you opened the Neymar Institute with
your parents for children from poor
backgrounds and the favelas where
you grew up. Who had this idea?
Very few people really know who I am,
they have more the idea the media
portrays, or on social media...
That idea was one we
had when I was little.
We had the idea to build this,
together with my family,
the idea of my father,
together with my mother,
who started to explain
what the institute was.
And then I started to understand
exactly what that would mean for us.
It's really everything
we dreamed of today.
I think it's even better
than we had dreamed.
I wanted to be more present,
but I can't because of the club's
fixture list and living far away.
But it's something that
was a dream of our family
that we have managed to achieve.
How many children are there?
There are three thousand children,
more or less and overall the
outreach from our relatives, gets
to more than ten thousand people.
We are very happy to be able to help.
The first thing you need to do to
participate in the Institute
is that your students are need to be
going to school, that they do not
miss their classes. The Institute
is in addition to the school.
We help with everything,
physical activities, French,
Spanish, English, robotics,
volleyball and swimming, karate.
Things that help to develop any kind
of child. Having these activities,
extra lessons in other languages,
I think it is very good.
Back home, there are some that say
that you are a hero that hasn't
forgotten where he came from.
Are you proud of that?
It's a huge source of pride for me,
to be recognized like this,
because I've never really
forgotten where I came from,
I've never forgotten all that I
learned in that neighborhood,
or in Nautica III. They were places
that taught me a lot of things,
from the street.
I'm very grateful for that.
And to be able to give back to
the Institute in this way is
something that has no price for me,
something very big indeed. It's the
best goal I could have scored and
I'm very happy to be able to help.